Service maturity docs (#128)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/software-catalog/scorecard/tutorial.md

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Tutorial
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"

> # Scorecards Tutorial

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Scorecards tutorial
```

## Create Scorecards

> Scorecards can be created using two methods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scorecards can be created by two methods:
```

- UI
- API

:::info
A Scorecard is created upon Blueprint. So if you haven't created the `microservice` Blueprint in [Creating a Blueprint](../blueprint/tutorial.md#creating-a-blueprint), please make sure to do so to follow along.
:::

### From the UI

> To create a scorecard from the UI, go to the Blueprints graph and click the 3 dots icon on the `microservice` blueprint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a scorecard from the UI, go to the Blueprints graph and click the 3 dots icon on the `microservice` Blueprint
```

// $ npm install axios --save

// the accessToken variable should already have the token from previous examples

const axios = require("axios").default;

const API_URL = "https://api.getport.io/v1";

const blueprintName = "Microservice";

const scorecards = [
  {
    identifier: "Ownership",
    title: "Ownership",
    rules: [
      {
        identifier: "hasSlackChannel",
        title: "Has Slack Channel",
        level: "Bronze",
        query: {
          combinator: "and",
          conditions: [
            {
              operator: "isNotEmpty",
              property: "slackChannel",
            },
          ],
        },
      },
      {
        identifier: "hasTeam",
        title: "Has Team",
        level: "Silver",
        query: {
          combinator: "and",
          conditions: [
            {
              operator: "isNotEmpty",
              property: "$team",
            },
          ],
        },
      },
    ],
  },
];

const config = {
  headers: {
    Authorization: `Bearer ${accessToken}`,
  },
};

const response = await axios.put(
  `${API_URL}/blueprints/${blueprintName}/scorecards`,
  scorecards,
  config
);
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

> After creating the scorecards, you will see a new Tab in the specific entity page of each of your blueprint's entities showing the level of each of the entity scorecards

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After creating the Scorecards, you will see a new tab in the profile Entity page of each of your Blueprint's Entities, showing the various scorecards levels.
```

> For example, we can [create the entity below](../entity/tutorial.md#create-entities)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, we can [create the Entity below](../entity/tutorial.md#create-entities)
```

```json showLineNumbers
{
  "identifier": "cart-service",
  "title": "Cart Service",
  "icon": "Microservice",
  "properties": {
    "slackChannel": "https://slack.com",
    "repoUrl": "https://github.com"
  },
  "relations": {}
}
```

And then look at the [specific page](https://app.getport.io/MicroserviceEntity?identifier=cart-service&activeTab=3) of this entity, on the scorecards tab

![Developer Portal Scorecards Tab](../../../static/img/software-catalog/scorecard/tutorial/ScorecardsTab.png)

We can see that the `hasSlackChannel` rule passed because we provided one to that entity, while the `hasTeam` failed because we didn't provide any team.

> Therefore the level of the entity is `Bronze` because it passed all the rules in the `Bronze` level (hasSlackChannel)

Reviewer: This paragraph isn't clear and a bit messy.

## Update Scorecards

> To update scorecards we can use the same url we used before with the same payload, but just to provide the `id` that the backend generated for that scorecard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To update Scorecards, we can use the same URL and payload we have used before with the `id` that the backend generated for that scorecard.
```

> And just like before, you can update a Scorecard from the UI or from the API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And just as we have shown earlier in the tutorial, you can update a Scorecard from the UI or from the API.
```

### From the UI

In order to update a Scorecard from the UI, go to the Blueprints graph, click on the 3 dots icon and select Scorecards:

![Blueprints page with Create Scorecard](../../../static/img/software-catalog/scorecard/tutorial/MicroserviceEditScorecard.png)

An editor window will open with the current scorecards of the Blueprint. In order to update the Scorecard, change the wanted scorecard within the scorecards array, click on `save` at the bottom right corner of the editor and view the updated Scorecards.

### From the API

To update a scorecard you can use 2 different URLs:

> 1. You can also update a single Scorecard using the url `https://api.getport.io/v1/{blueprint_identifier}/scorecards/{scorecard_identifier}`. The request body will be the full Scorecard + the wanted changed values
> 2. Make a PUT request to the URL `https://api.getport.io/v1/{blueprint_identifier}/scorecards`. to multiple scorecards at once

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Update a single Scorecard using the URL `https://api.getport.io/v1/{blueprint_identifier}/scorecards/{scorecard_identifier}`. The request body will be the full Scorecard + the wanted changed values
2. Make a PUT request to the URL `https://api.getport.io/v1/{blueprint_identifier}/scorecards`. to multiple scorecards at once
```

The request body will include the existing body of the Scorecard, after the desired updates to the existing Scorecard have been applied.

## Delete Scorecards

:::danger
A Scorecard cannot be restored after deletion!
:::

> In order to delete a Scorecard you can:
> 
> - Make an HTTP PUT request and remove it from the array of the scorecards via the URL `https://api.getport.io/v1/{blueprint_identifier}/scorecards`
> - Make an HTTP DELETE request to the URL `https://api.getport.io/v1/blueprints/{blueprint_identifier}/scorecards/{scorecard_identifier}` the `scorecard_identifier` is the identifier of the scorecard we want to delte

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two ways to delete a Scorecard:
- Make an HTTP PUT request and remove it from the array of the scorecards via the URL `https://api.getport.io/v1/{blueprint_identifier}/scorecards`
- Make an HTTP DELETE request to the URL `https://api.getport.io/v1/blueprints/{blueprint_identifier}/scorecards/{scorecard_identifier}` the `scorecard_identifier` is the identifier of the scorecard we want to delete
```

:::note

> When using the multiple update scorecards `https://api.getport.io/v1/{blueprint_identifier}/scorecards` PUT request keep in mind that you will see a new `id` property, this is used via Port to identify the scorecard in order to be able to update it's properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the multiple update Scorecards `https://api.getport.io/v1/{blueprint_identifier}/scorecards` PUT request, keep in mind that you will see a new `id` property. This is used via Port to identify the Scorecard in order to be able to update its properties
```
